144 Noms.

75. 26. Ad sapientiam .- “ to perfection ;” that
ie, who have most faithfully performed all moral

obligations·

Sne. XII. Friendship with men who become
bad citizens should be dissolved. The evils which
combinations of unprincipled men bring upon the
republic. Themistocles·

76. 23. Deflexit enim . . . . majorum.- “for we
have already somewhat deviated from the political
course marked out by our ancestorS.” Cursum is
understood to deflexit.

ι77. 3. Nam carbonem . . . . sustinuimus .· “ in
consideration of the recent punishment of Tiberius
Gracchus‚” [he was assassinated in the midst of his
adherente by P. S. Nasica] “ Ι protected his friend
Carbo as far as it was in my power;” that ie, from
the senatorial vengeance which pursued Tiberius
Gracchus and all his adherente with such implaca-
ble fury.

77. 8. In tabella. By this law the people gave
their votes in the assemblioe, not “vivd voce,'’ as for-
merly, but by writing upon tablets the name of the
person whom they wished to have elected. By this
method‚ the suffrages were absolutely free3 the
voters having no cause to sear the influence of the
rich and powerful. Cicero disapproved of this law,
because he believed it would sui-render the affairs
of the country to the caprice of the multitude.

 

 

