ffi„ , ῂῂ-Ἥτ-ἾῩΑὟ

No'ms. 133

57. 23. Africano ,· Scipio Africanae, the second
of that name. Cicero never mentions his name but
with expressions of the warmest veneration. Ac-
cording to Plutarch, he was the first of the Romans
in virtue as well as in authority.

57. 27. L. Atilium. Lucius Atilius), the colleague
of Cato in the consulship, was one of the most dis-
tinguished men of his time in the knowledge of civil
law.

58. 3. Usum .· “ experience.’'

58. 12. Qui septem appellantur. The number
of these wise men is variously stated by the ancient
writers3 those here referred to are probably Bias,
Chilo, CleobuluS, Pittacus, Solon, Thalea Perian··
der. Plutarch says they acquired their particular
designation, solely on account of those political
benefits which their superior wisdom and sagacity
had rendered to the respective states in which they
resided. It is probable, however, that Thales de-
rived this characteristic designation from the great
talents he discovered in natural and mathematical
knowledge, as he was the first who introduced those
important sciences into Greece.

58. 14. Athenis unum3 Socrates ⁴

58. 17. Ut omnia . . . . putes.- “that you con·
sider all the resources os happiness dependent on
yourself alone, and that human calamities are
deprived of their bitterness by the possession of
virtue.’‘

58. 21. ffie proximis Nonis. Cicero, in his trea-

